# CrypTool Function List

Aim of this project is to generate the data that feed into the [dynamic table of cryptological functions of the CrypTool project](https://www.cryptool.org/en/ctp-documentation/functionvolume).
To that end, it processes legacy files from, and data that is dynamically generated by:

 - [CrypTool 1](https://www.cryptool.org/en/cryptool1)
 - [CrypTool 2](https://www.cryptool.org/en/cryptool2)
 - [CrypTool Online](https://www.cryptool.org/en/cryptool-online)
 - [JCrypTool](https://www.cryptool.org/en/jcryptool)

# Current data output:

- sample output of the merge step: [misc_doc/output_19_11_28/regular_merged.csv](misc_doc/output_19_11_28/regular_merged.csv)
- sample output of the "final-form" (SQL input) step: [misc_doc/output_19_11_28/regular_final.csv](misc_doc/output_19_11_28/regular_final.csv)
- prettified (space-padded) output of the "final-form" (SQL input) step (columns truncated after 60 colums): [misc_doc/output_19_11_28/pretty_final.csv](misc_doc/output_19_11_28/pretty_final.csv)
- prettified (space-padded) output of the "final-form" (SQL input) step (no truncation): [misc_doc/output_19_11_28/pretty_full_final.csv](misc_doc/output_19_11_28/pretty_full_final.csv)

# Requirements:

- Python 3.8
- see [requirements.txt](requirements.txt)

# Steps

Right now, the csv generation is comprised of three steps:

- workspace setup: --  `src/flist_step_merge.py`
- merging of `$workspace/data/scsv_webdump` -- `src/flist_step_setup.py`
- creating the output that can be fed to the SQL database: `src/flist_step_tofinalform.py`

These three steps are Python scripts that depend upon `src/flist.python` as the common library. They are usable completely independently and do not even depend on a workspace present -- by virtue of the common "workspace" base (see below), defaults are available for everything.

However, each one is executable without specifying further arguments; they will work together by default. A bash script like this currently represents the whole pipeline. Each step writes its result to file, which gets picked up by the next one.

```
#!/bin/bash

./src/flist_step_setup.py
./src/flist_step_merge.py
./src/flist_step_tofinalform.py
```

Additional steps to follow:

- `finalform-to-html` -- for local testing of the product *(50% there)*
- `process-merged` -- if we see that we want to batch-process intermediate, `all_merged.csv` files, a filter step could be implemented that works AWK-like with rules over the columns of the data, taking as in- and output the same `all_merged.csv` file. `cp -r` Snapshots of the workspace may help keeping track of those steps.

Still, these can be customized by providing arguments, most prominently `--workspace` (specify another workspace to work together in)

# Workspace directory

The so-called "Workspace" connects all the single steps. It can be specified for each step separately via `--workspace <WS-dir>` argument, or be completely left out. In the latter case, the workspace defaults to the "ws" directory next to the "src" directory in the project home folder.

It looks like this, after all steps have been run (19/11/28):

```
ws/
├── all_final.csv    : the file that corresponds to the website input
├── all_merged.csv   : the file that contains the "raw", but merged content from different CT projects
└── data             : by default, a clone of /data in this repository
    ├── scsv_CT2     : contains the dynamically generated csv files of CT2
    │   └── FunctionList-en.csv
    └── scsv_webdump : contains the data that was copied from the website; the most up to date legacy dataset
        ├── CT1.csv
        ├── CT2.csv
        ├── CTO.csv
        └── JCT.csv
```

The data folder is by default a copy of the "data" dir next to the "src" dir of this repository. It may also be linked, or the files in it be specified to be loaded from any location. In most cases though, it is most convenient to run `src/flist_step_setup.py --workspace <if-left-out-defaults-to-ws-dir>` which sets up a workspace completely from scratch.

# TODO next

- CT2 paths in the final csv do not have a `[C]`-like path prefix
- convert `data/scsv_CT2/*` into properly formatted csv and push it into `flist_step_merge`, too. This is the prototype for processing dynamic output of the CrypTools (JCT to follow)
- generate a local version of the webpage for simulating the eventual behavior

## More TODO after these steps check out

- let JCT generate output that augments the legacy data in [data/scsv_webdump/JCT.csv](data/scsv_webdump/JCT.csv), with the goal to improve that functionality to the point of replacing that file entirely (as will have happened already with CT2)
- have CT2 and JCT generate translation files
    - incorporate these into the pipeline, so that a german translation of the "final" `ws/all_final.csv` file is generated


See also the [comprehensive overview over findings](todo.md). in the (formerly manually maintained) web-dump database
